one of the most extraordinary of these
insect entices lives here in the
tropical rainforest for Sumatra many
flowers once in a thousand days and when
the flower develops it only lasts for
three days so many few people have seen
it but here it is technically it's a
whole group of flowers clustered around
this but you could be justified for
regarding it as one flower and if you do
that well then this is the biggest
flower in the world it's related to the
dead horse Arum but its nine feet tall
and three feet across its Amorphophallus
titanum the titan arum the function of
this great spike in the middle is to
produce a smell and if you smell it it
smells very strongly of bad fish this
apparently attract insects it's come
along here and go down into this big
funnel to these small flowers that grow
at the base
until this film was taken no one was
sure what insect pollinated the titan
arum as we watched we saw that without
doubt the job was done by tiny sweat
bees like other Aram's the male flowers
form a band at the top below them the
female flowers with long yellow tipton
stigmas the bees seem to find some
reward on the stigmas for they crawled
all over them distributing the pollen
they're brought with them but why should
the titan arum produce the biggest room
in the world to attract such tiny
pollinators to be effective these bees
must bring pollen from another bloom but
since the plant is rare and only flowers
once in three years the nearest may be
miles away it's not easy to spread
perfume over such distances in the still
humid air of the rain forest perhaps the
best way to do so is to disperse it from
the top of a towering spire like smoke
from a factory chimney
you